site/content/docs/5.0/components/button-group.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Button group
description: Group a series of buttons together on a single line with the button group.
group: components
toc: true
---

## Basic example

Wrap a series of buttons with `.btn` in `.btn-group`.

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="Basic example">
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Left</button>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Middle</button>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Right</button>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

{{< callout warning >}}
##### Ensure correct `role` and provide a label

In order for assistive technologies (such as screen readers) to convey that a series of buttons is grouped, an appropriate `role` attribute needs to be provided. For button groups, this would be `role="group"`, while toolbars should have a `role="toolbar"`.

In addition, groups and toolbars should be given an explicit label, as most assistive technologies will otherwise not announce them, despite the presence of the correct role attribute. In the examples provided here, we use `aria-label`, but alternatives such as `aria-labelledby` can also be used.
{{< /callout >}}

These classes can also be added to groups of links, as an alternative to the [`.nav` navigation components]({{< docsref "/components/navs" >}}).

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-group">
  <a href="#" class="btn btn-secondary active" aria-current="page">Active link</a>
  <a href="#" class="btn btn-secondary">Link</a>
  <a href="#" class="btn btn-secondary">Link</a>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Outlined styles

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="Basic example">
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-outline-secondary">Left</button>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-outline-secondary">Middle</button>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-outline-secondary">Right</button>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Button toolbar

Combine sets of button groups into button toolbars for more complex components. Use utility classes as needed to space out groups, buttons, and more.

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-toolbar" role="toolbar" aria-label="Toolbar with button groups">
  <div class="btn-group mr-2" role="group" aria-label="First group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">1</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">2</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">3</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">4</button>
  </div>
  <div class="btn-group mr-2" role="group" aria-label="Second group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">5</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">6</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">7</button>
  </div>
  <div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="Third group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">8</button>
  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

Feel free to mix input groups with button groups in your toolbars. Similar to the example above, you'll likely need some utilities though to space things properly.

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-toolbar mb-3" role="toolbar" aria-label="Toolbar with button groups">
  <div class="btn-group mr-2" role="group" aria-label="First group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">1</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">2</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">3</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">4</button>
  </div>
  <div class="input-group">
    <div class="input-group-text" id="btnGroupAddon">@</div>
    <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="Input group example" aria-label="Input group example" aria-describedby="btnGroupAddon">
  </div>
</div>

<div class="btn-toolbar justify-content-between" role="toolbar" aria-label="Toolbar with button groups">
  <div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="First group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">1</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">2</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">3</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">4</button>
  </div>
  <div class="input-group">
    <div class="input-group-text" id="btnGroupAddon2">@</div>
    <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="Input group example" aria-label="Input group example" aria-describedby="btnGroupAddon2">
  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Sizing

Instead of applying button sizing classes to every button in a group, just add `.btn-group-*` to each `.btn-group`, including each one when nesting multiple groups.

<div class="bd-example">
  <div class="btn-group btn-group-lg" role="group" aria-label="Large button group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Left</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Middle</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Right</button>
  </div>
  <br>
  <div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="Default button group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Left</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Middle</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Right</button>
  </div>
  <br>
  <div class="btn-group btn-group-sm" role="group" aria-label="Small button group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Left</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Middle</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Right</button>
  </div>
</div>

{{< highlight html >}}
<div class="btn-group btn-group-lg" role="group" aria-label="...">...</div>
<div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="...">...</div>
<div class="btn-group btn-group-sm" role="group" aria-label="...">...</div>
{{< /highlight >}}

## Nesting

Place a `.btn-group` within another `.btn-group` when you want dropdown menus mixed with a series of buttons.

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="Button group with nested dropdown">
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">1</button>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">2</button>

  <div class="btn-group" role="group">
    <button id="btnGroupDrop1" type="button" class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
      Dropdown
    </button>
    <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="btnGroupDrop1">
      <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
      <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Vertical variation

Make a set of buttons appear vertically stacked rather than horizontally. **Split button dropdowns are not supported here.**

<div class="bd-example">
  <div class="btn-group-vertical" role="group" aria-label="Vertical button group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
  </div>
</div>


<div class="bd-example">
  <div class="btn-group-vertical" role="group" aria-label="Vertical button group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <div class="btn-group" role="group">
      <button id="btnGroupVerticalDrop1" type="button" class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
        Dropdown
      </button>
      <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="btnGroupVerticalDrop1">
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <div class="btn-group" role="group">
      <button id="btnGroupVerticalDrop2" type="button" class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
        Dropdown
      </button>
      <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="btnGroupVerticalDrop2">
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
    <div class="btn-group" role="group">
      <button id="btnGroupVerticalDrop3" type="button" class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
        Dropdown
      </button>
      <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="btnGroupVerticalDrop3">
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
    <div class="btn-group" role="group">
      <button id="btnGroupVerticalDrop4" type="button" class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
        Dropdown
      </button>
      <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="btnGroupVerticalDrop4">
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

{{< highlight html >}}
<div class="btn-group-vertical">
  ...
</div>
{{< /highlight >}}

Commit message:

Expand button group description
as it's not just single line, but vertical as well

site/content/docs/5.0/components/button-group.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Button group
description: Group a series of buttons together on a single line or stack them in a vertical column.
group: components
toc: true
---

## Basic example

Wrap a series of buttons with `.btn` in `.btn-group`.

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="Basic example">
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Left</button>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Middle</button>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Right</button>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

{{< callout warning >}}
##### Ensure correct `role` and provide a label

In order for assistive technologies (such as screen readers) to convey that a series of buttons is grouped, an appropriate `role` attribute needs to be provided. For button groups, this would be `role="group"`, while toolbars should have a `role="toolbar"`.

In addition, groups and toolbars should be given an explicit label, as most assistive technologies will otherwise not announce them, despite the presence of the correct role attribute. In the examples provided here, we use `aria-label`, but alternatives such as `aria-labelledby` can also be used.
{{< /callout >}}

These classes can also be added to groups of links, as an alternative to the [`.nav` navigation components]({{< docsref "/components/navs" >}}).

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-group">
  <a href="#" class="btn btn-secondary active" aria-current="page">Active link</a>
  <a href="#" class="btn btn-secondary">Link</a>
  <a href="#" class="btn btn-secondary">Link</a>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Outlined styles

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="Basic example">
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-outline-secondary">Left</button>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-outline-secondary">Middle</button>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-outline-secondary">Right</button>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Button toolbar

Combine sets of button groups into button toolbars for more complex components. Use utility classes as needed to space out groups, buttons, and more.

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-toolbar" role="toolbar" aria-label="Toolbar with button groups">
  <div class="btn-group mr-2" role="group" aria-label="First group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">1</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">2</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">3</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">4</button>
  </div>
  <div class="btn-group mr-2" role="group" aria-label="Second group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">5</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">6</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">7</button>
  </div>
  <div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="Third group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">8</button>
  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

Feel free to mix input groups with button groups in your toolbars. Similar to the example above, you'll likely need some utilities though to space things properly.

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-toolbar mb-3" role="toolbar" aria-label="Toolbar with button groups">
  <div class="btn-group mr-2" role="group" aria-label="First group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">1</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">2</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">3</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">4</button>
  </div>
  <div class="input-group">
    <div class="input-group-text" id="btnGroupAddon">@</div>
    <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="Input group example" aria-label="Input group example" aria-describedby="btnGroupAddon">
  </div>
</div>

<div class="btn-toolbar justify-content-between" role="toolbar" aria-label="Toolbar with button groups">
  <div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="First group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">1</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">2</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">3</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">4</button>
  </div>
  <div class="input-group">
    <div class="input-group-text" id="btnGroupAddon2">@</div>
    <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="Input group example" aria-label="Input group example" aria-describedby="btnGroupAddon2">
  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Sizing

Instead of applying button sizing classes to every button in a group, just add `.btn-group-*` to each `.btn-group`, including each one when nesting multiple groups.

<div class="bd-example">
  <div class="btn-group btn-group-lg" role="group" aria-label="Large button group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Left</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Middle</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Right</button>
  </div>
  <br>
  <div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="Default button group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Left</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Middle</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Right</button>
  </div>
  <br>
  <div class="btn-group btn-group-sm" role="group" aria-label="Small button group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Left</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Middle</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Right</button>
  </div>
</div>

{{< highlight html >}}
<div class="btn-group btn-group-lg" role="group" aria-label="...">...</div>
<div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="...">...</div>
<div class="btn-group btn-group-sm" role="group" aria-label="...">...</div>
{{< /highlight >}}

## Nesting

Place a `.btn-group` within another `.btn-group` when you want dropdown menus mixed with a series of buttons.

{{< example >}}
<div class="btn-group" role="group" aria-label="Button group with nested dropdown">
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">1</button>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">2</button>

  <div class="btn-group" role="group">
    <button id="btnGroupDrop1" type="button" class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
      Dropdown
    </button>
    <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="btnGroupDrop1">
      <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
      <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Vertical variation

Make a set of buttons appear vertically stacked rather than horizontally. **Split button dropdowns are not supported here.**

<div class="bd-example">
  <div class="btn-group-vertical" role="group" aria-label="Vertical button group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
  </div>
</div>


<div class="bd-example">
  <div class="btn-group-vertical" role="group" aria-label="Vertical button group">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <div class="btn-group" role="group">
      <button id="btnGroupVerticalDrop1" type="button" class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
        Dropdown
      </button>
      <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="btnGroupVerticalDrop1">
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary">Button</button>
    <div class="btn-group" role="group">
      <button id="btnGroupVerticalDrop2" type="button" class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
        Dropdown
      </button>
      <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="btnGroupVerticalDrop2">
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
    <div class="btn-group" role="group">
      <button id="btnGroupVerticalDrop3" type="button" class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
        Dropdown
      </button>
      <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="btnGroupVerticalDrop3">
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
    <div class="btn-group" role="group">
      <button id="btnGroupVerticalDrop4" type="button" class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
        Dropdown
      </button>
      <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="btnGroupVerticalDrop4">
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
        <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Dropdown link</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

{{< highlight html >}}
<div class="btn-group-vertical">
  ...
</div>
{{< /highlight >}}
