site/docs/4.5/components/carousel.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Carousel
description: A slideshow component for cycling through elements—images or slides of text—like a carousel.
group: components
toc: true
---

## How it works

The carousel is a slideshow for cycling through a series of content, built with CSS 3D transforms and a bit of JavaScript. It works with a series of images, text, or custom markup. It also includes support for previous/next controls and indicators.

In browsers where the [Page Visibility API](https://www.w3.org/TR/page-visibility/) is supported, the carousel will avoid sliding when the webpage is not visible to the user (such as when the browser tab is inactive, the browser window is minimized, etc.).

{% include callout-info-prefersreducedmotion.md %}

Please be aware that nested carousels are not supported, and carousels are generally not compliant with accessibility standards.

Lastly, if you're building our JavaScript from source, it [requires `util.js`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/{{ site.docs_version }}/getting-started/javascript/#util).

## Example

Carousels don't automatically normalize slide dimensions. As such, you may need to use additional utilities or custom styles to appropriately size content. While carousels support previous/next controls and indicators, they're not explicitly required. Add and customize as you see fit.

**The `.active` class needs to be added to one of the slides** otherwise the carousel will not be visible. Also be sure to set a unique id on the `.carousel` for optional controls, especially if you're using multiple carousels on a single page. Control and indicator elements must have a `data-target` attribute (or `href` for links) that matches the id of the `.carousel` element.

### Slides only

Here's a carousel with slides only. Note the presence of the `.d-block` and `.w-100` on carousel images to prevent browser default image alignment.

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleSlidesOnly" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel">
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
        {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

### With controls

Adding in the previous and next controls:

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleControls" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel">
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
    </div>
  </div>
  <a class="carousel-control-prev" href="#carouselExampleControls" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="carousel-control-next" href="#carouselExampleControls" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

### With indicators

You can also add the indicators to the carousel, alongside the controls, too.

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleIndicators" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel">
  <ol class="carousel-indicators">
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleIndicators" data-slide-to="0" class="active"></li>
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleIndicators" data-slide-to="1"></li>
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleIndicators" data-slide-to="2"></li>
  </ol>
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
    </div>
  </div>
  <a class="carousel-control-prev" href="#carouselExampleIndicators" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="carousel-control-next" href="#carouselExampleIndicators" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

### With captions

Add captions to your slides easily with the `.carousel-caption` element within any `.carousel-item`. They can be easily hidden on smaller viewports, as shown below, with optional [display utilities]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/{{ site.docs_version }}/utilities/display/). We hide them initially with `.d-none` and bring them back on medium-sized devices with `.d-md-block`.

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleCaptions" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel">
  <ol class="carousel-indicators">
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleCaptions" data-slide-to="0" class="active"></li>
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleCaptions" data-slide-to="1"></li>
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleCaptions" data-slide-to="2"></li>
  </ol>
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
      <div class="carousel-caption d-none d-md-block">
        <h5>First slide label</h5>
        <p>Nulla vitae elit libero, a pharetra augue mollis interdum.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
      <div class="carousel-caption d-none d-md-block">
        <h5>Second slide label</h5>
        <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
      <div class="carousel-caption d-none d-md-block">
        <h5>Third slide label</h5>
        <p>Praesent commodo cursus magna, vel scelerisque nisl consectetur.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <a class="carousel-control-prev" href="#carouselExampleCaptions" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="carousel-control-next" href="#carouselExampleCaptions" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

### Crossfade

Add `.carousel-fade` to your carousel to animate slides with a fade transition instead of a slide.

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleFade" class="carousel slide carousel-fade" data-ride="carousel">
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
    </div>
  </div>
  <a class="carousel-control-prev" href="#carouselExampleFade" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="carousel-control-next" href="#carouselExampleFade" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

### Individual `.carousel-item` interval

Add `data-interval=""` to a `.carousel-item` to change the amount of time to delay between automatically cycling to the next item.

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleInterval" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel">
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active" data-interval="10000">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item" data-interval="2000">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
    </div>
  </div>
  <a class="carousel-control-prev" href="#carouselExampleInterval" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="carousel-control-next" href="#carouselExampleInterval" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}


## Usage

### Via data attributes

Use data attributes to easily control the position of the carousel. `data-slide` accepts the keywords `prev` or `next`, which alters the slide position relative to its current position. Alternatively, use `data-slide-to` to pass a raw slide index to the carousel `data-slide-to="2"`, which shifts the slide position to a particular index beginning with `0`.

The `data-ride="carousel"` attribute is used to mark a carousel as animating starting at page load. If you don't use `data-ride="carousel"` to initialize your carousel, you have to initialize it yourself. **It cannot be used in combination with (redundant and unnecessary) explicit JavaScript initialization of the same carousel.**

### Via JavaScript

Call carousel manually with:

{% highlight js %}
$('.carousel').carousel()
{% endhighlight %}

### Options

Options can be passed via data attributes or JavaScript. For data attributes, append the option name to `data-`, as in `data-interval=""`.

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="width: 100px;">Name</th>
      <th style="width: 50px;">Type</th>
      <th style="width: 50px;">Default</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>interval</td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>5000</td>
      <td>The amount of time to delay between automatically cycling an item. If false, carousel will not automatically cycle.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>keyboard</td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>true</td>
      <td>Whether the carousel should react to keyboard events.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>pause</td>
      <td>string | boolean</td>
      <td>"hover"</td>
      <td><p>If set to <code>"hover"</code>, pauses the cycling of the carousel on <code>mouseenter</code> and resumes the cycling of the carousel on <code>mouseleave</code>. If set to <code>false</code>, hovering over the carousel won't pause it.</p>
      <p>On touch-enabled devices, when set to <code>"hover"</code>, cycling will pause on <code>touchend</code> (once the user finished interacting with the carousel) for two intervals, before automatically resuming. Note that this is in addition to the above mouse behavior.</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>ride</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>false</td>
      <td>Autoplays the carousel after the user manually cycles the first item. If "carousel", autoplays the carousel on load.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>wrap</td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>true</td>
      <td>Whether the carousel should cycle continuously or have hard stops.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>touch</td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>true</td>
      <td>Whether the carousel should support left/right swipe interactions on touchscreen devices.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Methods

{% include callout-danger-async-methods.md %}

#### `.carousel(options)`

Initializes the carousel with an optional options `object` and starts cycling through items.

{% highlight js %}
$('.carousel').carousel({
  interval: 2000
})
{% endhighlight %}

#### `.carousel('cycle')`

Cycles through the carousel items from left to right.

#### `.carousel('pause')`

Stops the carousel from cycling through items.

#### `.carousel(number)`

Cycles the carousel to a particular frame (0 based, similar to an array). **Returns to the caller before the target item has been shown** (i.e. before the `slid.bs.carousel` event occurs).

#### `.carousel('prev')`

Cycles to the previous item. **Returns to the caller before the previous item has been shown** (i.e. before the `slid.bs.carousel` event occurs).

#### `.carousel('next')`

Cycles to the next item. **Returns to the caller before the next item has been shown** (i.e. before the `slid.bs.carousel` event occurs).

#### `.carousel('dispose')`

Destroys an element's carousel.

### Events

Bootstrap's carousel class exposes two events for hooking into carousel functionality. Both events have the following additional properties:

- `direction`: The direction in which the carousel is sliding (either `"left"` or `"right"`).
- `relatedTarget`: The DOM element that is being slid into place as the active item.
- `from`: The index of the current item
- `to`: The index of the next item

All carousel events are fired at the carousel itself (i.e. at the `<div class="carousel">`).

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="width: 150px;">Event Type</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>slide.bs.carousel</td>
      <td>This event fires immediately when the <code>slide</code> instance method is invoked.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>slid.bs.carousel</td>
      <td>This event is fired when the carousel has completed its slide transition.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

{% highlight js %}
$('#myCarousel').on('slide.bs.carousel', function () {
  // do something...
})
{% endhighlight %}

### Change transition duration

The transition duration of `.carousel-item` can be changed with the `$carousel-transition` Sass variable before compiling or custom styles if you're using the compiled CSS. If multiple transitions are applied, make sure the transform transition is defined first (eg. `transition: transform 2s ease, opacity .5s ease-out`).

Commit message:

carousel: add missing `to`, `nextwhenvisible` desc

site/docs/4.5/components/carousel.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Carousel
description: A slideshow component for cycling through elements—images or slides of text—like a carousel.
group: components
toc: true
---

## How it works

The carousel is a slideshow for cycling through a series of content, built with CSS 3D transforms and a bit of JavaScript. It works with a series of images, text, or custom markup. It also includes support for previous/next controls and indicators.

In browsers where the [Page Visibility API](https://www.w3.org/TR/page-visibility/) is supported, the carousel will avoid sliding when the webpage is not visible to the user (such as when the browser tab is inactive, the browser window is minimized, etc.).

{% include callout-info-prefersreducedmotion.md %}

Please be aware that nested carousels are not supported, and carousels are generally not compliant with accessibility standards.

Lastly, if you're building our JavaScript from source, it [requires `util.js`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/{{ site.docs_version }}/getting-started/javascript/#util).

## Example

Carousels don't automatically normalize slide dimensions. As such, you may need to use additional utilities or custom styles to appropriately size content. While carousels support previous/next controls and indicators, they're not explicitly required. Add and customize as you see fit.

**The `.active` class needs to be added to one of the slides** otherwise the carousel will not be visible. Also be sure to set a unique id on the `.carousel` for optional controls, especially if you're using multiple carousels on a single page. Control and indicator elements must have a `data-target` attribute (or `href` for links) that matches the id of the `.carousel` element.

### Slides only

Here's a carousel with slides only. Note the presence of the `.d-block` and `.w-100` on carousel images to prevent browser default image alignment.

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleSlidesOnly" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel">
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
        {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

### With controls

Adding in the previous and next controls:

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleControls" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel">
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
    </div>
  </div>
  <a class="carousel-control-prev" href="#carouselExampleControls" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="carousel-control-next" href="#carouselExampleControls" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

### With indicators

You can also add the indicators to the carousel, alongside the controls, too.

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleIndicators" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel">
  <ol class="carousel-indicators">
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleIndicators" data-slide-to="0" class="active"></li>
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleIndicators" data-slide-to="1"></li>
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleIndicators" data-slide-to="2"></li>
  </ol>
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
    </div>
  </div>
  <a class="carousel-control-prev" href="#carouselExampleIndicators" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="carousel-control-next" href="#carouselExampleIndicators" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

### With captions

Add captions to your slides easily with the `.carousel-caption` element within any `.carousel-item`. They can be easily hidden on smaller viewports, as shown below, with optional [display utilities]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/{{ site.docs_version }}/utilities/display/). We hide them initially with `.d-none` and bring them back on medium-sized devices with `.d-md-block`.

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleCaptions" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel">
  <ol class="carousel-indicators">
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleCaptions" data-slide-to="0" class="active"></li>
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleCaptions" data-slide-to="1"></li>
    <li data-target="#carouselExampleCaptions" data-slide-to="2"></li>
  </ol>
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
      <div class="carousel-caption d-none d-md-block">
        <h5>First slide label</h5>
        <p>Nulla vitae elit libero, a pharetra augue mollis interdum.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
      <div class="carousel-caption d-none d-md-block">
        <h5>Second slide label</h5>
        <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
      <div class="carousel-caption d-none d-md-block">
        <h5>Third slide label</h5>
        <p>Praesent commodo cursus magna, vel scelerisque nisl consectetur.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <a class="carousel-control-prev" href="#carouselExampleCaptions" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="carousel-control-next" href="#carouselExampleCaptions" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

### Crossfade

Add `.carousel-fade` to your carousel to animate slides with a fade transition instead of a slide.

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleFade" class="carousel slide carousel-fade" data-ride="carousel">
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
    </div>
  </div>
  <a class="carousel-control-prev" href="#carouselExampleFade" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="carousel-control-next" href="#carouselExampleFade" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

### Individual `.carousel-item` interval

Add `data-interval=""` to a `.carousel-item` to change the amount of time to delay between automatically cycling to the next item.

{% capture example %}
<div id="carouselExampleInterval" class="carousel slide" data-ride="carousel">
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active" data-interval="10000">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#555" background="#777" text="First slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item" data-interval="2000">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#444" background="#666" text="Second slide" %}
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      {% include icons/placeholder.svg width="800" height="400" class="bd-placeholder-img-lg d-block w-100" color="#333" background="#555" text="Third slide" %}
    </div>
  </div>
  <a class="carousel-control-prev" href="#carouselExampleInterval" role="button" data-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Previous</span>
  </a>
  <a class="carousel-control-next" href="#carouselExampleInterval" role="button" data-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="sr-only">Next</span>
  </a>
</div>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}


## Usage

### Via data attributes

Use data attributes to easily control the position of the carousel. `data-slide` accepts the keywords `prev` or `next`, which alters the slide position relative to its current position. Alternatively, use `data-slide-to` to pass a raw slide index to the carousel `data-slide-to="2"`, which shifts the slide position to a particular index beginning with `0`.

The `data-ride="carousel"` attribute is used to mark a carousel as animating starting at page load. If you don't use `data-ride="carousel"` to initialize your carousel, you have to initialize it yourself. **It cannot be used in combination with (redundant and unnecessary) explicit JavaScript initialization of the same carousel.**

### Via JavaScript

Call carousel manually with:

{% highlight js %}
$('.carousel').carousel()
{% endhighlight %}

### Options

Options can be passed via data attributes or JavaScript. For data attributes, append the option name to `data-`, as in `data-interval=""`.

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="width: 100px;">Name</th>
      <th style="width: 50px;">Type</th>
      <th style="width: 50px;">Default</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>interval</td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>5000</td>
      <td>The amount of time to delay between automatically cycling an item. If false, carousel will not automatically cycle.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>keyboard</td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>true</td>
      <td>Whether the carousel should react to keyboard events.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>pause</td>
      <td>string | boolean</td>
      <td>"hover"</td>
      <td><p>If set to <code>"hover"</code>, pauses the cycling of the carousel on <code>mouseenter</code> and resumes the cycling of the carousel on <code>mouseleave</code>. If set to <code>false</code>, hovering over the carousel won't pause it.</p>
      <p>On touch-enabled devices, when set to <code>"hover"</code>, cycling will pause on <code>touchend</code> (once the user finished interacting with the carousel) for two intervals, before automatically resuming. Note that this is in addition to the above mouse behavior.</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>ride</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>false</td>
      <td>Autoplays the carousel after the user manually cycles the first item. If "carousel", autoplays the carousel on load.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>wrap</td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>true</td>
      <td>Whether the carousel should cycle continuously or have hard stops.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>touch</td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>true</td>
      <td>Whether the carousel should support left/right swipe interactions on touchscreen devices.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Methods

{% include callout-danger-async-methods.md %}

#### `.carousel(options)`

Initializes the carousel with an optional options `object` and starts cycling through items.

{% highlight js %}
$('.carousel').carousel({
  interval: 2000
})
{% endhighlight %}

#### `.carousel('cycle')`

Cycles through the carousel items from left to right.

#### `.carousel('pause')`

Stops the carousel from cycling through items.

#### `.carousel(number)`

Cycles the carousel to a particular frame (0 based, similar to an array). **Returns to the caller before the target item has been shown** (i.e. before the `slid.bs.carousel` event occurs).

#### `.carousel('prev')`

Cycles to the previous item. **Returns to the caller before the previous item has been shown** (i.e. before the `slid.bs.carousel` event occurs).

#### `.carousel('next')`

Cycles to the next item. **Returns to the caller before the next item has been shown** (i.e. before the `slid.bs.carousel` event occurs).

#### `.carousel('dispose')`

Destroys an element's carousel.

#### `.carousel('nextWhenVisible')`

Don't cycle the carousel to next when the page isn't visible or the carousel or its parent isn't visible. **Returns to the caller before the next item has been shown** (i.e. before the `slid.bs.carousel` event occurs).

#### `.carousel('to')`

Cycles the carousel to a particular frame (0 based, similar to an array). **Returns to the caller before the next item has been shown** (i.e. before the `slid.bs.carousel` event occurs).

### Events

Bootstrap's carousel class exposes two events for hooking into carousel functionality. Both events have the following additional properties:

- `direction`: The direction in which the carousel is sliding (either `"left"` or `"right"`).
- `relatedTarget`: The DOM element that is being slid into place as the active item.
- `from`: The index of the current item
- `to`: The index of the next item

All carousel events are fired at the carousel itself (i.e. at the `<div class="carousel">`).

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="width: 150px;">Event Type</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>slide.bs.carousel</td>
      <td>This event fires immediately when the <code>slide</code> instance method is invoked.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>slid.bs.carousel</td>
      <td>This event is fired when the carousel has completed its slide transition.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

{% highlight js %}
$('#myCarousel').on('slide.bs.carousel', function () {
  // do something...
})
{% endhighlight %}

### Change transition duration

The transition duration of `.carousel-item` can be changed with the `$carousel-transition` Sass variable before compiling or custom styles if you're using the compiled CSS. If multiple transitions are applied, make sure the transform transition is defined first (eg. `transition: transform 2s ease, opacity .5s ease-out`).
