docs/4.0/components/breadcrumb.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Breadcrumb
description: Indicate the current page's location within a navigational hierarchy that automatically adds separators via CSS.
group: components
---

## Overview

Separators are automatically added in CSS through [`::before`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::before) and [`content`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content).

{% capture example %}
<nav aria-label="breadcrumb">
  <ol class="breadcrumb">
    <li class="breadcrumb-item active" aria-current="page">Home</li>
  </ol>
</nav>

<nav aria-label="breadcrumb">
  <ol class="breadcrumb">
    <li class="breadcrumb-item"><a href="#">Home</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumb-item active" aria-current="page">Library</li>
  </ol>
</nav>

<nav aria-label="breadcrumb">
  <ol class="breadcrumb">
    <li class="breadcrumb-item"><a href="#">Home</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumb-item"><a href="#">Library</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumb-item active" aria-current="page">Data</li>
  </ol>
</nav>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

## Accessibility

Since breadcrumbs provide a navigation, it's a good idea to add a meaningful label such as `aria-label="breadcrumb"` to describe the type of navigation provided in the `<nav>` element, as well as applying an `aria-current="page"` to the last item of the set to indicate that it represents the current page.

For more information, see the [WAI-ARIA Authoring Practices for the breadcrumb pattern](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#breadcrumb).

Commit message:

Allow non-string content as breadcrumb divider (#25581)
* Allow url(), attr(), none,... as breadcrumb divider
* Update breadcrumb divider docs

docs/4.0/components/breadcrumb.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Breadcrumb
description: Indicate the current page's location within a navigational hierarchy that automatically adds separators via CSS.
group: components
---

## Example

{% capture example %}
<nav aria-label="breadcrumb">
  <ol class="breadcrumb">
    <li class="breadcrumb-item active" aria-current="page">Home</li>
  </ol>
</nav>

<nav aria-label="breadcrumb">
  <ol class="breadcrumb">
    <li class="breadcrumb-item"><a href="#">Home</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumb-item active" aria-current="page">Library</li>
  </ol>
</nav>

<nav aria-label="breadcrumb">
  <ol class="breadcrumb">
    <li class="breadcrumb-item"><a href="#">Home</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumb-item"><a href="#">Library</a></li>
    <li class="breadcrumb-item active" aria-current="page">Data</li>
  </ol>
</nav>
{% endcapture %}
{% include example.html content=example %}

## Changing the separator

Separators are automatically added in CSS through [`::before`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::before) and [`content`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content). They can be changed by changing `$breadcrumb-divider`. The [quote](http://sass-lang.com/documentation/Sass/Script/Functions.html#quote-instance_method) function is needed to generate the quotes around a string, so if you want `>` as seperator, you can use this:
 
```scss
$breadcrumb-divider: quote(">");
```

It's also possible to use a **base64 embedded SVG icon**:

```scss
$breadcrumb-divider: url(data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0iaHR0cDovL3d3dy53My5vcmcvMjAwMC9zdmciIHdpZHRoPSI4IiBoZWlnaHQ9IjgiPjxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0yLjUgMEwxIDEuNSAzLjUgNCAxIDYuNSAyLjUgOGw0LTQtNC00eiIgZmlsbD0iY3VycmVudENvbG9yIi8+PC9zdmc+);
```

The separator can be removed by setting `$breadcrumb-divider` to `none`:

```scss
$breadcrumb-divider: none;
```

## Accessibility

Since breadcrumbs provide a navigation, it's a good idea to add a meaningful label such as `aria-label="breadcrumb"` to describe the type of navigation provided in the `<nav>` element, as well as applying an `aria-current="page"` to the last item of the set to indicate that it represents the current page.

For more information, see the [WAI-ARIA Authoring Practices for the breadcrumb pattern](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#breadcrumb).
